okay Anthony blinkin is speaking now at
Cairo Airport let's listen in we came
here with four key
objectives to make clear that the United
States stands with
Israel to prevent the conflict from
spreading to other
places to work on securing the release
of hostages including American citizens
and to address the humanitarian crisis
that exists in Gaza um we started as you
know in in Israel and it was important
to make it very clear that the United
States has Israel's back we will stand
with it today tomorrow and every day and
we're doing that in word and also In
Deed I spent time with prime minister
Netanyahu to go through the needs that
Israel may have to um make sure it can
effectively defend itself uh and you've
already seen a lot of that assistance
moving forward and that's a conversation
that'll continue um Israel has the the
right indeed it has the obligation to
defend itself against these attacks from
Hamas and to try to do what it can to
make sure that this never happens
again as I said in Tel Aviv as President
Biden has said the way that Israel does
this matters uh needs to do it in a way
that affirms uh the shared values that
we have for human life and human dignity
taking every possible precaution to
avoid harming civilians
um after we uh left Israel we've gone
now to I think I've lost track but to
six countries in the region Jordan uh
Bahrain cter the United Arab Emirates
Saudi Arabia now here in
Egypt and the purpose of um seeing all
of our partners was first and foremost
to listen to them to hear how they're
seeing this crisis and to look at what
we can do together uh to deal with many
any of the concerns that it's raised
what I've heard from virtually every
partner was a determination a shared
view it looks like we have lost the feed
to Anthony blinkin there who was
speaking uh before departing Cairo where
he has been on a whirlwind diplomacy
tour right around uh the region we're
going to go now to Petty Khan who joins
us live from Washington DC Petty we
heard Anthony blinkin reiterate once
again as we have over the last few days
uh the United States uh priorities here
trying to prevent the conflict from
spreading the hostage release and the
humanitarian crisis was there anything
else that stood out for you in uh in
what we heard from uh the US Secretary
of State
there I think what stands out for me is
in all of the conversations he's had
with his counterparts in the region is
they are putting and you just heard
heard from the Egyptian president they
are putting the focus on the fact of
what's happening in Gaza now the
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin he is
talking about the attacks on Israel and
again they're very careful with their
language but it's also very deliberate
when they said again we expect Israel to
follow the rules of law Israel is not
following the rules of law especially
with that blockade now I know we're
hearing reports that some water may be
turned on but we've just heard again
carefully worded from the National
Security adviser Jake Sullivan saying
that they expect that they that they
expect that Water Shelter
food for Gaza should be respected by
Israel and others so I think what's
notable is he's getting pushed back I
think when he's going to this region and
you just heard from the Egyptian
president saying what this is not it's
not equal what happened to Israel this
is now Collective punishment and again
so this the secret this the sly language
if you will of they have to respect the
rule of law is they're not respecting
the rule of law they have not changed
any of that language since uh they just
first started using it some days ago so
the question is are they going to start
saying more than they should respect the
rule of law but they aren't that's what
I'll be looking for yeah we also heard
blink in the Israel has the right to
defend itself but the way it does
matters they have to take every possible
precaution uh to try and protect
civilians is that new in this that uh is
really outlining that civilians have to
come first
here well they've been saying that at
the same time they keep and the
president reiterated this uh just last
night saying that Hamas is using
civilians as a human shield uh so the
they basically saying look they're
trying to protect civilians they told
them to move to the south then and if
they're if they do it hit civilians in
the north it's likely the US would come
out and say well maybe they couldn't
leave uh but again it's what the United
Nations is saying is it's it's
impossible to move a million people in
such a short a period of time and
especially when it comes to moving
people in the hospitals uh that you know
are running out of electricity so
they're trying to walk a very fine line
of showing unwavering support for Israel
but also trying to appease Partners in
the region because truly for them the
biggest concern and it is actually one
shared by the American public is that
this could lead to a wider War there was
one poll 8 in 10 fear that this is going
to lead to a wider conflict okay thank
you so much for that petty that's Petty
khin for us in Washington
dcat bagat is a professor of National
Security Affairs at the National Defense
University he joins us from Washington
DC for more on this issue thank you very
much for joining us on elera sir we
heard uh and we have heard over the last
few days all about uh the United States
and their priorities but what are
Egypt's concerns or priorities
here as everybody knows Egypt is major
regional power and uh this instability
this war in Gaza is against uh the
interest of everybody including Egypt
Egypt is very concerned about all uh
about stability in the Middle East and
also on National level Egypt is very
interested and concerned about uh about
2 million Palestinians where they will
go uh Egypt is not an option for a very
long time Egypt Jordan all Arab
countries have insisted that the
Palestinians maintain their national
identity
Egypt does not accept the Palestinians
to move there Jordan does not accept the
Palestinians to move there it is in the
best interest of Arab countries of the
Palestinians for the Palestinians to
stay there what is the fear if the
Palestinians if two million Palestinians
were to move to to Jordan and into
Egypt uh this is uh will will end
Palestinian uh uh dream the Palestinian
demand for two State solution the
Palestinians belong to Palestine to the
West Bank to Gaza and they demand their
uh nation state their uh independent
state and if they move to Jordan and
Egypt this will be over okay just stay
with us so we're going to go back to
Anthony blinkin who is speaking on the T
in
Cairo that has countries in the region
normalizing their relations integrating
working together uh in common purpose
and uh upholding and bringing forth the
uh the rights and aspirations of the
Palestinian people that's One Vision
it's very clear there's another Vision
that Hamas has demonstrated in the most
horrific way and that's a vision of
death of destruction of nihilism of
terrorism that's a vision that does
nothing to advance aspirations for for
Palestinians that does nothing to help
uh create better futures for people in
the region and does everything to bring
total darkness to everyone that it that
that it's able to uh to affect so I
think the the two the the paths are
clear the Visions are clear and I have
no doubt what path people the
overwhelming majority of people in the
region will choose and will prefer if
given the opportunity so our
responsibility all of us who believe in
that first path and that's everyone I
talk to our responsibility is to make it
real uh to bring it to life to make it a
clear affirmative choice and that's what
we're determined to do we have to get
through this crisis first uh and we're
we're working to do that uh but we also
have to get back in a very clear
practical way to that Vision to making
it real if we do that everyone in this
region will be in a much better place
and so will the rest of the world
well that he was US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin uh speaking there at
Cairo Airport we're going to bring back
in our guest Gad bakad is who is a
professor of National Security Affairs
at the National Defense University thank
you for staying with us uh I want to ask
about blinken's tour of the Arab region
we've seen him uh go to about half a
dozen countries over the last four or
five days he is due to head back to
Israel on Monday though what message do
you think he's going to be taking back
from all the Arab leaders that he has
met I I believe the main message which
everybody agrees on that there is no
military solution what happened was not
surprise and uh if we do not agree on
political solution meaning uh agreement
which both the Palestinians Israelis and
AR countries will accept uh this
conflict will come again it will not
stop there and this why the in the short
term we have to stop escalation in the
long term there is no military solution
all parties have to agree on political
solution political solution means state
for Palestinians in peace with the state
of
Israel we heard earlier today when
blinkin met uh Egyptian president Cece
Cece warned that this could spread wider
than just Israel and Gaza I mean how
worried is Cairo about this expanding
further Beyond just
Gaza there is great concern there are
military clashes between hasbalah and
Israel Israel bombed different sites in
Syria Iran announced that it will uh
take action if Israel does not stop
bombing Gaza so there is great concern
that the war will not stop in Gaza and
will spend will include the entire
Middle East yeah and Beyond Iran earlier
today warned that no one can guaranteed
control of the situation if Israel
invades Gaza do you see that as a threat
from
Iran uh I believe Wars take life on
their own when the Iran Iraq war started
nobody ever thought it will take eight
years so uh it is this is the lesson
when United States invaded Afghanistan
we never thought we will be there for
more than 20 years so it is very
important to understand that it is very
hard to predict the course of any War
okay thank you so much for joining us uh
and for your inside on all of this that
is godat bagat uh for us thank you so
much